proposal for native token bridge deposit fee (#19)
alicenet/specs: specifications/ProposalForFeeChange.md

---
title: Proposal for bridge service fees
author: z-j-lin, vtleonardo

> discussion: <!--- Discussion URL -->

Reviewer: Open a discussion and link here.

team: Backend
category: Development
status: Draft

> related: <!-- Issue or Spec [URL] -->

Reviewer: Is bridge pool or any other spec or existing files in the system related to this.

created: 2022-11-17
---

## Introduction

AliceNet Bridge allows users to transfer tokens on evm compatible chains into alicenet where fees are less expensive.

#### Summary

> This spec describes the current plans of fee collection for AliceNet bridging and implications associated with fee collections, as well as possible solutions

Reviewer: "specification"

#### Context

ALCB is the utility token for AliceNet, all transactions on our layer 2 chain are charged in ALCB, and ALCB is native to Ethereum. There are currently two categories of fees and each category has sub categories based on what pool logic the user is interacting with. For exiting tokens back into the tokens native chain, we charge a withdraw fee on AliceNet, and for transfering external tokens into external pools, we charge a withdraw fee and a deposit fee

#### Goals

> create a competitive fee system for our bridge that is gas efficient, and consistent in all bridges moving tokens into AliceNet

Reviewer: "Create"

#### Non Goals

<!--- What is not to be included with this -->

#### Assumptions

> <!-- Conditions and resources that need to be present and accessible for the solution to work as described -->

Reviewer: Aren't you assuming we want a "competitive fee system"? Why do you assume this?

## Specification

#### Overview

On the current design, there are fees charged on AliceNet when users transfer tokens back to other blockchains. The fee will depend on if the destination blockchain is the native blockchain of the token.

For the case where users are transferring a token that is native from Ethereum into alicenet, they can use the BToken/ALCB contract directly to minimize the gas costs of the transaction. This is because ALCB is our utility token and it exists on Ethereum. This method will only work on Ethereum since the ALCB contract and the other economic systems only exist on Ethereum. Therefore, the current problem we need to resolve is, having to bridge ALCB to external chains for their native tokens to be transferred to AliceNet

**Solution 1**

Deploy an ALCB bridge wrapper/external pool on every blockchain supported by AliceNet, except for Ethereum. With this approach, users can buy ALCB on Ethereum, transfer it to AliceNet, then bridge it out of AliceNet, into the external chain, and then burn it as a deposit fee to bridge a native token from an external chain into AliceNet.

> pros:

Reviewer: "Pros"

> - we get deposit fees

Reviewer: "We"

> - disincentivizes users from flooding alicenet with useless coins.

Reviewer: "Disincentivizes"

> - possibly increase fees on other layer 2 chains since gas is cheaper there (for another discussion)

Reviewer: "Possibly"

> cons:

Reviewer: "Cons"

**Solution 3**

charge no fees on entrance, the user pays for the gas to transfer token into the bridge pool, and they are charged only a withdraw fee on AliceNet for exiting Alicenet back to the tokens native chain.

pros:

- wayyy more competitive than anyone
- can capture more tokens on our chain, even from polygon
- more users will use out bridge
- we gain more profit from more transactions on alice

cons:

- we miss out on deposit fee

#### Security / Risks

One of the security risk for collecting Btoken on other layer 2 chains is price manipulation of our gas fees to discourage users from leaving their ecosystem.

## Further Considerations

Not collecting ALCB fees for native token deposits means we can remove the deposit token on bridges function in the ALCB contract, and we can deploy ALCB without finalizing the Bridge Router

#### Alternative Solutions

#### Timeline

<!--- Estimated timeline to complete / list any milestones -->

#### Prioritization

This blocks development of the bridge since this feature touches on nonupgradeable parts of our infrastructure such as the ALCB constract, and Bridge Router.

#### Dependencies

> <!--- Dependencies on other specs -->

Reviewer: Does this depend on Bridge Pool Specification?

Author: Bridge pool specs depend on this

---
title: Proposal for bridge service fees
author: z-j-lin, vtleonardo
discussion: https://github.com/alicenet/specs/discussions/20
team: Backend
category: Development
status: Draft
related: [Bridge Router](https://github.com/alicenet/alicenet/issues/478) , [Bridge Pool Base](https://github.com/alicenet/specs/pull/16)
created: 2022-11-17
---

## Introduction

AliceNet Bridge allows users to transfer tokens on EVM compatible chains into AliceNet where fees are less expensive.

#### Summary

This specification describes the current plans of fee collection for AliceNet bridging and implications associated with fee collections, as well as possible solutions

#### Context

> ALCB is the utility token for AliceNet, all transactions on our layer 2 chain are charged in ALCB, and ALCB is native to Ethereum. There are currently two categories of fees and each category has sub-categories based on what pool logic the user is interacting with. For transferring tokens back into their native chain, we charge a withdrawal fee on AliceNet, and for transferring external tokens into external pools, we charge a withdrawal fee and a deposit fee

Author: you can buy alcb from btoken or if there are alcb pools you can get them from there, but onces they go in alicenet they can never come back to ethereum.

> ALCB is the utility token for AliceNet, all transactions on our layer 2 chain are charged in ALCB, and ALCB is native to Ethereum. There are currently two categories of fees and each category has sub-categories based on what pool logic the user is interacting with. For transferring tokens back into their native chain, we charge a withdrawal fee on AliceNet, and for transferring external tokens into external pools, we charge a withdrawal fee and a deposit fee

Reviewer 2: "How does ALCB get burned on both Ethereum and Alicenet?"

I am not sure it is useful to say that ALCB gets "burned" on AliceNet. ALCB is effectively gas and is used to pay for transactions. Part of these transactions consist of fees, which are are not able to be used when the transaction is consumed. In this way, continuous utilization of AliceNet requires more and more deposits of ALCB.

With regards to burning ALCB on Ethereum, burning on Ethereum just entails destroying them (removing them from existence and reducing the total token amount accordingly). Burning must be distinguished from deposits, where the tokens are removed from existence and then total token amount is decreased accordingly, **and a deposit utxo is now available for usage in AliceNet**.

#### Goals

Create a competitive fee system for our bridge that is gas efficient, and consistent in all bridges moving tokens into AliceNet

#### Non-Goals

#### Assumptions

- All Fees are charged in ALCB
- We want people to transfer high trade volume tokens into AliceNet
- Our First road block in attracting current crypto users into our echo system is the onboarding overhead. The price of transfering their existing coins could be a point of friction for users considering moving their tokens into AliceNet
- The amount of high trade volume tokens in our system is directly proportional to the profitability of our system

> - Most users will determine what bridge they will used based on the cost incurred from the transfer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Most users will determine what bridge they will use based on the transfer cost
```

Pros:

- Way more competitive than anyone
- Can capture more tokens on our chain, even from polygon
- More users will use our bridge
- We gain more profit from more transactions on AliceNet

Cons:

- We miss out on the deposit fee

#### Security / Risks

One of the security risk for collecting Btoken on other layer 2 chains is price manipulation of our gas fees to discourage users from leaving their ecosystem.

## Further Considerations

Not collecting ALCB fees for native token deposits means we can remove the deposit token on bridges function in the ALCB contract, and we can deploy ALCB without finalizing the Bridge Router

#### Alternative Solutions

#### Timeline

<!--- Estimated timeline to complete / list any milestones -->

#### Prioritization

This blocks development of the bridge since this feature touches on nonupgradeable parts of our infrastructure such as the ALCB constract, and Bridge Router.

#### Dependencies

<!--- Dependencies on other specs -->

#### Open Questions

> how often can we change our fees?

Reviewer 3: These seem like @chgorman questions
